Given your parameters, you can create a heat map in Microsoft Excel to visualize how each server is performing compared to its thresholds. Here’s how you can organize your data and use Excel to analyze it effectively:

Step 1: Organize Your Data

Set up your data in the following format:

Server Name	VM/Physical	Purpose	CPU Utilization (%)	CPU Threshold (%)	Memory Utilization (%)	Memory Threshold (%)
Server1	VM	App Server	65	80	70	90
Server2	Physical	DB Server	85	80	95	90
Server3	VM	Web Server	40	75	50	80

Step 2: Apply Conditional Formatting

Use conditional formatting to highlight utilization percentages that exceed their thresholds.

CPU Utilization Heat Map:
	1.	Highlight the CPU Utilization (%) column.
	2.	Go to Home > Conditional Formatting > New Rule.
	3.	Choose Format cells based on their values.
	4.	Use a 3-color scale:
	•	Green: Values below 50% of the threshold.
	•	Yellow: Between 50% and 100% of the threshold.
	•	Red: Values exceeding the threshold.

Memory Utilization Heat Map:
	1.	Highlight the Memory Utilization (%) column.
	2.	Repeat the steps above, adjusting thresholds accordingly.

Custom Rule for Threshold Comparison:
	1.	Highlight both CPU Utilization (%) and CPU Threshold (%).
	2.	Go to Conditional Formatting > New Rule.
	3.	Use the formula:

=D2>E2

	•	This checks if the CPU Utilization exceeds the CPU Threshold.

	4.	Set a red fill or other formatting to highlight violations.

Repeat the same for Memory Utilization vs. Memory Threshold.

Step 3: Add Filtering for Purpose or Server Type
	1.	Turn your table into a filterable list:
	•	Select the data, then go to Insert > Table.
	2.	Use the dropdown filters to view data by Purpose (e.g., App Server) or Server Type (VM/Physical).

Step 4: Optional Chart

Create a Clustered Bar Chart to show utilization vs. thresholds for better visual comparison:
	1.	Highlight the CPU Utilization, CPU Threshold, Memory Utilization, and Memory Threshold columns.
	2.	Go to Insert > Recommended Charts > Clustered Bar Chart.

Benefits:
	•	Quick Identification: See servers exceeding thresholds at a glance.
	•	Custom Insights: Easily filter by server type or purpose.
	•	Automation: Conditional formatting dynamically adjusts as data changes.

Would you like a sample Excel template or detailed instructions for specific features?